# Large Scale Data Processing: Project 2

## Calculating and reporting findings

1. F_2 results:
- Local: Exact F2. Time elapsed:1019s. Estimate: 8567966130

3. **(3 points)** Implement the `Tug_of_War` function. The function accepts an RDD of strings, a parameter `width`, and a parameter `depth` as inputs. It should run `width * depth` Tug-of-War sketches, group the outcomes into groups of size `width`, compute the means of each group, and then return the median of the `depth` means in approximating F2. A 4-universal hash function class `four_universal_Radamacher_hash_function`, which generates a hash function from a 4-universal family, has been provided for you. The generated function `hash(s: String)` will hash a string to 1 or -1, each with a probability of 50%. Once you've implemented the function, set `width` to 10 and `depth` to 3. Run `Tug_of_War` locally **and** on GCP with 1 driver and 4 machines having 2 x N1 cores. Copy the results to your report. Terminate the program if it runs for longer than 30 minutes. **Please note** that the algorithm won't be significantly faster than `exact_F2` since the number of different cars is not large enough for the memory to become a bottleneck. Additionally, computing `width * depth` hash values of the license plate strings requires considerable overhead. That being said, executing with `width = 1` and `depth = 1` should generally still be faster.
4. **(3 points)** Implement the `BJKST` function. The function accepts an RDD of strings, a parameter `width`, and a parameter `trials` as inputs. `width` denotes the maximum bucket size of each sketch. The function should run `trials` sketches and return the median of the estimates of the sketches. A template of the `BJKSTSketch` class is also included in the sample code. You are welcome to finish its methods and apply that class or write your own class from scratch. A 2-universal hash function class `hash_function(numBuckets_in: Long)` has also been provided and will hash a string to an integer in the range `[0, numBuckets_in - 1]`. Once you've implemented the function, determine the smallest `width` required in order to achieve an error of +/- 20% on your estimate. Keeping `width` at that value, set `depth` to 5. Run `BJKST` locally **and** on GCP with 1 driver and 4 machines having 2 x N1 cores. Copy the results to your report. Terminate the program if it runs for longer than 30 minutes.
5. **(1 point)** Compare the BJKST algorithm to the exact F0 algorithm and the tug-of-war algorithm to the exact F2 algorithm. Summarize your findings.
